[WIP] RD Training (#57521)
odoo/odoo: doc/howtos/rdtraining/setup.rst

.. _howto/rdtraining/setup:

==============================
Development Environment Set-up
==============================

There are multiple ways to install Odoo depending on the intended use case.

This documents attempts to describe the installation option for an internal Odoo R&D developer. We

> assume that you are installing your development environment in an Odoo's standard laptop with Linux

Author: ```suggestion
assume that you are installing your development environment on an Odoo's standard laptop with Linux
```

> Mint installed and updated. If you another environment is used, you can refer to :ref:`setup/install/source`

Author: ```suggestion
Mint installed and updated. At the time of writing, a vanilla Linux Mint 20 (Ubuntu 20.04) was used as a starting point.

If you another environment is used, you can refer to :ref:`setup/install/source`
```

Fetch the sources & configure Git
=================================

Install and configure git
-------------------------

> 

Author: Add a bit more context, e.g.:
```suggestion
The very first step of the installation process is to install the `git` version control system (insert reference). Indeed, the Odoo source code is managed on GitHub. We then set our name and email:
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install git
    $ git config --global user.name "Your full name"
    $ git config --global user.email "xyz@odoo.com"

Configure github
----------------

To fetch the sources and to contribute in the Odoo's development you will need a GitHub user. If you
don't have already a GitHub user, we will recommend using your trigram (xyz) followed by '-odoo':

> 'xyz-odoo'.

Author: I would do the other way around: suggest to use a specific user for Odoo, but if prefer they use their own.

> The easy way to authenticate to GitHub is to use the ssh connection, using the ssh authentication

Author: ```suggestion
The easy way to authenticate to GitHub is to use the SSH connection, using the SSH authentication
```

will allow you to connect to GitHub without supplying your username or password at each visit.

The following instructions are based on the official `GitHub documentation`_.

> .. _GitHub documentation: https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh

Author: This can be moved at the very end of the file.

> In your computer:

Author: ```suggestion
Here is a step-by-step procedure to do so:
```

- Generating a new SSH key, adding it to the ssh-agent and copy the SSH key to your clipboard.

  .. code-block:: console

>     $ ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "xyz@odoo.com"

Author: `ed25519` is supposed to be the safest at the moment:
```suggestion
    $ ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "xyz@odoo.com"
```

>     $ ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "xyz@odoo.com"
>     $ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa

Author: `ed25519` is assumed to be the safest at the moment: 
```suggestion
    $ ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "xyz@odoo.com"
    $ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```

    $ sudo apt-get install xclip

>     $ xclip -sel clip < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub

Author: Not sure we really need `xclip` for this. But I agree it's simpler to explain.

In Github:

- In the upper-right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click Settings

>   .. image:: https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/settings/userbar-account-settings.png

Author: check if we can link to this directly or we need to re-do the screenshots

- In the user settings sidebar, click SSH and GPG keys.

  .. image:: https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/settings/settings-sidebar-ssh-keys.png

- Click New SSH key or Add SSH key.

  .. image:: https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/settings/ssh-add-ssh-key.png

- In the "Title" field, add a descriptive label for the new key.
- Paste your key into the "Key" field.

  .. image:: https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/settings/ssh-key-paste.png

- Click Add SSH key.

  .. image:: https://docs.github.com/assets/images/help/settings/ssh-add-key.png

Fetch the sources
-----------------

All the Odoo sources will be located in `/home/$USER/src/`

.. code-block:: console

>     $ cd /home/$USER

Author: We could also use `$HOME`.
```
mkdir -p $HOME/src
cd $HOME/src
```

>     $ mkdir src

Author: ```suggestion
    $ mkdir -p src
```

    $ cd src
    $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/odoo.git

>     $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/enterprise.git

Author: Maybe it is worth pointing out this takes time... Could we fetch both in parallel? Need to check if it is worth it. By the way, once odoo is fetched, we can suggest to move forward up to "Run the server" and leave the enterprise be fetched in the backgroud.

.. tip:: You may need to ask your manager read rights to fetch the enterprise repository.

Configure odoo-dev
------------------

> Odoo-dev is the internal R&D repository, it's in this repository that you will create your working

Author: ```suggestion
odoo-dev is the internal R&D repository, it's in this repository that you will create your working
```

branches. This repository is only available if you are working at Odoo.

.. code-block:: console

>     $ cd /home/$USER/src/odoo

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
```

    $ git remote add odoo-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/odoo.git #add odoo-dev as remote
    $ git remote rename origin odoo #change the name of origin (the odoo repository) to odoo
    $ git remote set-url --push odoo no_push #remove the posibilities to push to odoo (you can only push to odoo-dev)

>     $ cd /home/$USER/src/enterprise

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
```

    $ git remote add enterprise-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/enterprise.git
    $ git remote rename origin enterprise
    $ git remote set-url --push enterprise no_push

Useful git commands
-------------------

These are useful git commands for your every working day.

* Change branch
  When you change branch, both repositories (odoo and enterprise) must be synchronized, i.e., both
  need to be in the same branch.

  .. code-block:: console

>     $ cd /home/$USER/src/odoo

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
```

>     $ git checkout saas-13.5

Author: We will need to change it soon, so better use:
```suggestion
    $ git checkout 14.0
```

>     $ cd /home/$USER/src/enterprise
>     $ git checkout saas-13.5

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git checkout 14.0
```

* Fetch and rebase :

  .. code-block:: console

>     $ cd /home/$USER/src/odoo

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
```

>     $ git fetch --all

Author: ```suggestion
    $ git fetch --all --prune
```

>     $ git rebase --autostash odoo/saas-13.5

Author: ```suggestion
    $ git rebase --autostash odoo/14.0

>     $ cd /home/$USER/src/enterprise

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
```

>     $ git fetch --all

Author: ```suggestion
    $ git fetch --all --prune
```

>     $ git rebase --autostash enterprise/saas-13.5

Author: ```suggestion
    $ git rebase --autostash enterprise/14.0
```

Install the dependencies
========================

Python
------

Odoo requires Python 3.6 or later, if your computer is updated you should already have an updated version.

You can check your Python version with:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python3 --version

Install pip3 and libraries
--------------------------

For libraries using native code, it is necessary to install development tools and native
dependencies before the Python dependencies of Odoo.

.. code-block:: console

>     $ sudo apt install python3-pip
>     $ sudo apt install python3-dev libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libldap2-dev libsasl2-dev
>     $ sudo apt install libssl-dev libpq-dev libjpeg-dev

Author: ```suggestion
    $ sudo apt install python3-pip python3-dev libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libldap2-dev libsasl2-dev libssl-dev libpq-dev libjpeg-dev
```

Install odoo requirements
-------------------------

.. code-block:: console

>     $ cd /home/$USER/src/odoo

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
```

    $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Install wkhtmltopdf
-------------------

wkhtmltopdf is a library to render HTML into PDF, it is used to create the PDF reports. wkhtmltopdf
is not installed through pip and must be installed manually in version 0.12.5 for it to support
headers and footers.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd /tmp/
    $ sudo wget https://github.com/wkhtmltopdf/wkhtmltopdf/releases/download/0.12.5/wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.focal_amd64.deb
    $ sudo gdebi --n wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.focal_amd64.deb
    $ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltopdf /usr/bin

>     $ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltoimage /usr/bin

Author: so there is no issue with roboto in Linux Mint 20?

Reviewer: It seems to work correctly, the PDF is generated and it has its headers and footers.

Right-to-left interface support
-------------------------------

> 

Author: Add some context.
```
In order to support right-to-left (RTL) languages, we need `rtlcss` to convert the CSS files:
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt-get install nodejs npm
    $ sudo npm install -g rtlcss

Install PostgreSQL
------------------

> Odoo needs a PostgreSQL server to run properly.

Author: ```suggestion
As seen in :ref:`howto/rdtraining/architecture`, Odoo uses PostgreSQL as a RDBM. In the context of a development machine, the easiest way is to install it locally: 
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install postgresql postgresql-client
    $ sudo -u postgres createuser -s $USER

> Some sql useful commands :

Author: ```suggestion
Some useful SQL commands:
```

.. code-block:: console

    $ createdb $DB_NAME #Create a database
    $ dropdb $DB_NAME #Drop a database

    $ psql $DB_NAME #Connect into a database
        \l #List all the available databases
        \dt #List all the table of the $DB_NAME database
        \d $TABLE_NAME #Show the structure of the table $TABLE_NAME
        \q #Quit the psql environment (ctrl + d)

Run the server
==============

Running odoo-bin
----------------

Once all dependencies are set up, Odoo can be launched by running odoo-bin, the command-line interface of the server.

.. code-block:: console

>     $ cd src/odoo/

Author: ```suggestion
    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
```

    $ ./odoo-bin --addons-path="addons/,../enterprise/" -d rd-demo

There are multiples :ref:`command-line arguments <reference/cmdline/server>` that you can use to
configure the server. In this training, you will only need some of them.

> * `-d <database>`

Author: We can link to each option with:
```
:option:`--addons-path <odoo-bin --addons-path>`
```

  The database that is going to be used.

* `--addons-path <directories>`
  Comma-separated list of directories in which modules are stored. These directories are scanned for
  modules.

* `--limit-time-cpu <limit>`
  Prevents the worker from using more than <limit> CPU seconds for each request.

* `--limit-time-real <limit>`
  Prevents the worker from taking longer than <limit> seconds to process a request.

The last two are going to be used to avoid killing the worker when debugging the source code.

.. tip:: If when you start the server you have an error like `AttributeError: module '$MODULE_NAME' has no attribute '$ATTRIBUTE'`

         You may need to re-install the module with `$ pip install --upgrade --force-reinstall $MODULE_NAME`

         If this error occurs with more than one module you may need to re-install all the
         requirements with `$ pip3 install --upgrade --force-reinstall -r requirements.txt`

         You can also remove the python cache to solve the issue

         .. code-block:: console

            $ cd /home/$USER/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/

>             $ find -name '*.pyc' -type f -delete

Author: Did you face this issue? Seems weird... or it means you faced another error previously.

> Log in to odoo

Author: ```suggestion
Log in to Odoo
```

--------------

> Open `http://localhost:8069/` at your browser. We recommend you to use: Firefox, Chrome

Author: ```suggestion
Open `http://localhost:8069/` on your browser. We recommend you to use: Firefox, Chrome
```

(Chromium the open source equivalent) or any other browser with development tools.

To log in as the administrator user, you can use the following credentials : email = `admin` ;
password = `admin`.

The developer mode
==================

The Developer or Debug Mode gives you access to extra and advanced tools.

This will be useful during the whole training, for the rest of the training we will always assume
that the user is in developer mode.

To activate the developer or debug mode you can follow the steps `here`_.

> .. _here: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/user/13.0/general/developer_mode/activate.html

Author: Ideally it would be good to cross-reference this with `:ref:`. In the meantime, we can use:

```suggestion
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/user/general/developer_mode/activate.html
```
which redirects to the latest version

Extra tools
===========

> code editor

Author: ```suggestion
Code Editor
```

Don't forget to configure correctly the linters. Using a linter can help show syntax and semantic
warnings or errors. Odoo source code tries to respect Python and JavaScript standards, but some of
them can be ignored.

For Python, we use PEP8 with these options ignored :

- E501: line too long
- E301: expected 1 blank line, found 0
- E302: expected 2 blank lines, found 1

For JavaScript, we use ESLinter, and you can find a `configuration file example here`_.

.. _configuration file example here: https://github.com/odoo/odoo/wiki/Javascript-coding-guidelines#use-a-linter
.. _VSCode: https://code.visualstudio.com/
.. _VSCodium: https://vscodium.com/
.. _Sublime Text: https://www.sublimetext.com/
.. _PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/fr-fr/pycharm/download/#section=linux

Administration tools for PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------

You can administrate your PostgreSQL databases using the command line as exemplified before or using
some GUI application as `pgAdmin`_ or `DBeaver`_.

To connect the GUI application to your database we recommend you to connect using the Unix socket.
Host name/address = /var/run/postgresql
Port = 5432

> Username = $Home

Author: ```suggestion
Username = $USER
```

.. _pgAdmin: https://www.pgadmin.org/download/pgadmin-4-apt/
.. _DBeaver: https://dbeaver.io/

Python Debugging
----------------

When you have a bug, debugging it using print might be enough at first. But, by learning how to use
a proper debugger, you will gain time.

You can use a classic Python library debugger (`pdb`_, `pudb`_ or `ipdb`_) or you can use your
editor debugger. In the beginning, to avoid difficult configurations, it's easier if you use a
library debugger.

In the following example, I'm going to use pdb, but the procedure is the same with the others ones.

- Install the library

  .. code-block:: console

>         pip3 install pdb

Author: Maybe ipdb? It is a bit more user-friendly, with colors.

- Trigger (breakpoint)

  .. code-block:: console

        import pdb; pdb.set_trace()

  Example:

  .. code-block:: console

        def copy(self, default=None):

>             import pudb; pu.db

Author: we install pdb but use pudb

            self.ensure_one()
            chosen_name = default.get('name') if default else ''
            new_name = chosen_name or _('%s (copy)') % self.name
            default = dict(default or {}, name=new_name)

>             return super(Partner, self).copy(default)

Author: Maybe a simpler example?

> - Commands:
> 
>     - `h(elp) [command]`

Author: This gives a weird indent. Maybe just do:
```suggestion
Here is a list of commands:

- `h(elp) [command]`
```

`Chrome <https://www.google.com/intl/fr/chrome/>`__
(`Chromium <https://www.chromium.org/Home>`__ the open source equivalent) or any other browser with
development tools.

To log in as the administrator user, you can use the following credentials :

* email = `admin`
* password = `admin`

The developer mode
==================

The Developer or Debug Mode gives you access to extra and advanced tools.

This will be useful during the whole training, for the rest of the training we will always assume
that the user is in developer mode.

To activate the developer or debug mode you can follow the steps `here <https://www.odoo.com/documentation/user/general/developer_mode/activate.html>`__.

Extra tools
===========

Code Editor
-----------
If you are working at Odoo, many of your colleagues are using `VSCode`_ (`VSCodium`_ the open source
equivalent), `Sublime Text`_, `Atom`_ or `PyCharm`_. However, you are free to chose your preferred editor.

Don't forget to configure correctly the linters. Using a linter can help show syntax and semantic
warnings or errors. Odoo source code tries to respect Python and JavaScript standards, but some of
them can be ignored.

> For Python, we use PEP8 with these options ignored :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Python, we use PEP8 with these options ignored:
```

- E501: line too long
- E301: expected 1 blank line, found 0
- E302: expected 2 blank lines, found 1

> For JavaScript, we use ESLinter, and you can find a `configuration file example here`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For JavaScript, we use ESLint, and you can find a `configuration file example here`_.
```

.. _configuration file example here: https://github.com/odoo/odoo/wiki/Javascript-coding-guidelines#use-a-linter
.. _VSCode: https://code.visualstudio.com/
.. _VSCodium: https://vscodium.com/
.. _Sublime Text: https://www.sublimetext.com/
.. _PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/fr-fr/pycharm/download/#section=linux
.. _Atom: https://atom.io/

Administration tools for PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------

You can administrate your PostgreSQL databases using the command line as exemplified before or using

> some GUI application as `pgAdmin <https://www.pgadmin.org/download/pgadmin-4-apt/>`__ or `DBeaver <https://dbeaver.io/>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a GUI application such as `pgAdmin <https://www.pgadmin.org/download/pgadmin-4-apt/>`__ or `DBeaver <https://dbeaver.io/>`__.
```

> To connect the GUI application to your database we recommend you to connect using the Unix socket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect the GUI application to your database we recommend you connect using the Unix socket.
```

* Host name/address = /var/run/postgresql
* Port = 5432
* Username = $USER

Python Debugging
----------------

When you have a bug, debugging it using print might be enough at first. But, by learning how to use

> a proper debugger, you will gain time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a proper debugger, you will save time.
```

You can use a classic Python library debugger (`pdb <https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html>`__,
`pudb <https://pypi.org/project/pudb/>`__ or `ipdb <https://pypi.org/project/ipdb/>`__) or you can

> use your editor debugger. In the beginning, to avoid difficult configurations, it's easier if you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use your editor's debugger. At the beginning, to avoid difficult configurations, it's going to be easier if you
```

use a library debugger.

> In the following example, I'm going to use pdb, but the procedure is the same with the others ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, we are going to use ipdb, but the procedure is the same with the other ones.
```

> - Install the library

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Install the library:
```

  .. code-block:: console

        pip3 install ipdb

> - Trigger (breakpoint)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Trigger (breakpoint):
```

  .. code-block:: console

        import ipdb; ipdb.set_trace()

  Example:

  .. code-block:: python
     :emphasize-lines: 2

        def copy(self, default=None):
            import ipdb; ipdb.set_trace()
            self.ensure_one()
            chosen_name = default.get('name') if default else ''
            new_name = chosen_name or _('%s (copy)') % self.name
            default = dict(default or {}, name=new_name)
            return super(Partner, self).copy(default)

Here is a list of commands:

.. option:: h(elp) [command]

      Without argument, print the list of available commands. With a command as argument, print help
      about that command.

.. option:: w(here)

      Print a stack trace, with the most recent frame at the bottom.

.. option:: d(own)

      Move the current frame one level down in the stack trace (to a newer frame).

.. option:: u(p)

      Move the current frame one level up in the stack trace (to an older frame).

.. option:: n(ext)

>       Continue execution until the next line in the current function is reached or it returns.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Continue the execution until the next line in the current function is reached or it returns.
```

.. option:: c(ontinue)

>       Continue execution, only stop when a breakpoint is encountered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Continue the execution and only stop when a breakpoint is encountered.
```

.. option:: q(uit)

>       Quit from the debugger. The program being executed is aborted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Quit the debugger. The program being executed is aborted.
```

.. _howto/rdtraining/setup:

==============================
Development Environment Set-up
==============================

There are multiple ways to install Odoo depending on the intended use case.

This document attempts to describe the installation options for an internal Odoo R&D developer. We
assume that you are installing your development environment on an Odoo standard laptop with Linux
Mint installed and up-to-date. At the time of writing, we are using a vanilla Linux Mint 20
(Ubuntu 20.04) as a starting point.

If you are using another environment, you can refer to :ref:`setup/install/source`.

Fetch the sources & configure git
=================================

Install and configure git
-------------------------

The very first step of the installation process is to install the `git version control system <https://git-scm.com/>`__
as the Odoo source code is managed on GitHub. Once installed, you can set your name and email:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install git
    $ git config --global user.name "Your full name"

>     $ git config --global user.email "xyz@odoo.com"

Author: The tutorial was designed especially for him/her.

Here is a step-by-step procedure to do so:

- Generate a new SSH key, add it to the ssh-agent and copy the SSH key to your clipboard.

  .. code-block:: console

    $ ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "xyz@odoo.com"
    $ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
    $ sudo apt-get install xclip
    $ xclip -sel clip < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

On Github:

- In the upper-right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click Settings

  .. image:: setup/media/userbar-account-settings.png

- In the user settings sidebar, click SSH and GPG keys.

  .. image:: setup/media/settings-sidebar-ssh-keys.png

- Click New SSH key or Add SSH key.

  .. image:: setup/media/ssh-add-ssh-key.png

- In the "Title" field, add a descriptive label for the new key.
- Paste your key into the "Key" field.

  .. image:: setup/media/ssh-key-paste.png

- Click Add SSH key.

Fetch the sources
-----------------

All the Odoo sources will be located in `$HOME/src/`

.. code-block:: console

    $ mkdir -p $HOME/src
    $ cd $HOME/src
    $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/odoo.git
    $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/enterprise.git

.. tip:: Cloning the repositories will take a while, enjoy a cup of coffee while waiting.

> .. tip:: You may need to ask your manager read rights to fetch the enterprise repository.

Author: I can't find where. Can you provide a screenshot?

> .. tip:: You may need to ask your manager read rights to fetch the enterprise repository.

Reviewer 3: My bad, it's not on the profile (as in res.users) but on the hr.employee.public form

![Screenshot_20200923_100026](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15896813/93984444-19e26800-fd84-11ea-8f49-ac0c63972b8a.jpg)

> .. tip:: You may need to ask your manager read rights to fetch the enterprise repository.

Author: thanks

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd  $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git remote add odoo-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/odoo.git #add odoo-dev as a new remote
    $ git remote rename origin odoo #change the name of origin (the odoo repository) to odoo
    $ git remote set-url --push odoo no_push #remove the possibility to push to odoo (you can only push to odoo-dev)

    $ cd  $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git remote add enterprise-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/enterprise.git
    $ git remote rename origin enterprise
    $ git remote set-url --push enterprise no_push

Useful git commands
-------------------

These are useful git commands for your day-to-day work.

* Change branch:
  When you change branches, both repositories (odoo and enterprise) must be synchronized, i.e. both
  need to be in the same branch.

  .. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git checkout 14.0

    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git checkout 14.0

* Fetch and rebase:

  .. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git fetch --all --prune
    $ git rebase --autostash odoo/14.0

    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git fetch --all --prune
    $ git rebase --autostash enterprise/14.0

> Install the dependencies

Reviewer 3: I see the added value of a single-page setup doc, as well as comments and tips included in that doc, but I believe that making a copy of the source install doc is a bad idea. A quick reference to the targeted page would do the trick too: "Refer to the Source Install documentation to prepare your environment."
As that page needs to be continuously updated along the year (not only when we release a major version), this training page will certainly be quickly outdated and confuse the readers more than it will help them.
Same goes for removing some useful bits as the command to install the C dependencies on Debian. This can be quite a challenge to figure it out for a new dev.

Author: > A quick reference to the targeted page would do the trick too

This page has been written for a reason: a large percentage of newcomers have a badly configured system after their training.

The point of this part of the tutorial is to install the git sources of Odoo 14.0 with wkhtml 0.12.5 on a clean Ubuntu 20.04.
The point of the "Source Install" on the documentation is to be generic for Linux installation. IMHO, the latter misses the point since:
- it assumes the system uses apt, so some kind of Debian derivative
- even by assuming a Debian derivative it doesn't target any version

Documenting how to install Odoo on a generic Linux distribution is simply impossible. Even by making the assumption the distribution is based on Debian you can never be sure the instructions will work for any version : some dependencies may or may not be already installed [1], some packages may not be available...

Moreover, you still have the possibility to not use git but download the sources in a zip file, install the multiple versions of wkhtml, whether or not use the Enterprise repo. When you start from scratch, the correct steps to take are not obvious.

In end, it's likely that the instructions in the documentation won't be enough and a few extra steps will be necessary to launch Odoo. We want to avoid this for newcomers: we want a step-by-step procedure which works every time.

> this training page will certainly be quickly outdated and confuse the readers more than it will help them.

The procedure is likely to be executed multiple times every 2 weeks, so hopefully we will be able to keep it up-to-date.

[1] A clean Debian 10 server has not the same set of pre-installed packages than a clean Ubuntu 20.04 or Ubuntu 18.04.
